language/tools/move-mv-llvm-compiler/README.md, before:

# Move bytecode to llvm bitcode compiler

Takes move bytecode in text or binary format

See: `move-mv-llvm-compiler --help` for cli.

Compile move-bytecode to llvm bitcode

## Overview

The move compiler uses llvm-sys to interface with llvm. It translates stackless bytecode representation of move to llvm-ir.
Read more about bytecode translations from [here](https://github.com/move-language/move/issues/817) and [here](https://brson.github.io/2023/03/12/move-on-llvm#challenges-of-porting-move)

The [docs](./docs) directory contains the documentation. Interesting links:

- [Move to llvm compiler](./docs/MoveToLLVM.md)
- [Project stages](./docs/MoveToLLVM.md#project-stages)

Developer documentation

- [Dependencies](./docs/Development.md#Dependencies)
- [Setup](./docs/Development.md#Setup)
- [Testing](./docs/Development.md#Testing)
- [Debugging](./docs/Development.md#Debugging)

### TODO

Create issues instead of having TODOs here.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

- Parts of [inkwell](https://github.com/TheDan64/inkwell) code has been copied to this subfolder.
It will be rewritten based on the needs of the project. If exact code is to be adopted, they will be
put in a sub folder with appropriate acknowledgement.

- The [ziglang codebase](https://git.sr.ht/~andrewrk/ziglang/tree/master) has examples of LLVM C API that has been helpful.

Commit message:

Add document on where to create issues

language/tools/move-mv-llvm-compiler/README.md, after:

# Move bytecode to llvm bitcode compiler

Takes move bytecode in text or binary format

See: `move-mv-llvm-compiler --help` for cli.

Compile move-bytecode to llvm bitcode

## Overview

The move compiler uses llvm-sys to interface with llvm. It translates stackless bytecode representation of move to llvm-ir.
Read more about bytecode translations from [here](https://github.com/move-language/move/issues/817) and [here](https://brson.github.io/2023/03/12/move-on-llvm#challenges-of-porting-move)

The [docs](./docs) directory contains the documentation. Interesting links:

- [Move to llvm compiler](./docs/MoveToLLVM.md)
- [Project stages](./docs/MoveToLLVM.md#project-stages)

Developer documentation

- [Dependencies](./docs/Development.md#Dependencies)
- [Setup](./docs/Development.md#Setup)
- [Testing](./docs/Development.md#Testing)
- [Debugging](./docs/Development.md#Debugging)

### TODO

Create issues instead of having TODOs here.

- Create move programming language specific issues in [move-language/move](https://github.com/move-language/move/issues)
- For the move-llvm compiler, create issues in [solana-labs/move/issues](https://github.com/solana-labs/move/issues). If you can't decide feel free to create issues here and the developers will guide accordingly.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

- Parts of [inkwell](https://github.com/TheDan64/inkwell) code has been copied to this subfolder.
It will be rewritten based on the needs of the project. If exact code is to be adopted, they will be
put in a sub folder with appropriate acknowledgement.

- The [ziglang codebase](https://git.sr.ht/~andrewrk/ziglang/tree/master) has examples of LLVM C API that has been helpful.
