language/documentation/book/translations/move-book-zh/src/signer.md, before:

# Signer

`signer` is a built-in Move resource type. A `signer` is a
[capability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-capability_model) that allows the holder to act on
behalf of a particular `address`. You can think of the native implementation as being:
# 签名者
signer 是内置的 Move 资源类型。签名者是一种允许持有者代表特定地址行事的能力。您可以将本机实现视为：

struct signer 有 drop { a: address }
签名者有点类似于 Unix UID，因为它表示通过 Move 之外的代码（例如，通过检查加密签名或密码）进行身份验证的用户。

```move
struct signer has drop { a: address }
```

A `signer` is somewhat similar to a Unix [UID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_identifier) in
that it represents a user authenticated by code _outside_ of Move (e.g., by checking a cryptographic
signature or password).
签名者有点类似于 Unix UID，因为它表示通过 Move 之外的代码（例如，通过检查加密签名或密码）进行身份验证的用户。

## Comparison to `address`

A Move program can create any `address` value without special permission using address literals:
## 比较地址
Move 程序可以使用地址文字创建任何地址值，而无需特殊许可：

```move
let a1 = @0x1;
let a2 = @0x2;
// ... and so on for every other possible address
```

However, `signer` values are special because they cannot be created via literals or
instructions--only by the Move VM. Before the VM runs a script with parameters of type `signer`, it
will automatically create `signer` values and pass them into the script:

但是，签名者值是特殊的，因为它们不能通过文字或指令创建，只能由 Move VM 创建。在虚拟机运行带有签名者类型参数的脚本之前，它会自动创建签名者值并将它们传递给脚本：

```move=
script {
    use std::signer;
    fun main(s: signer) {
        assert!(signer::address_of(&s) == @0x42, 0);
    }
}
```

This script will abort with code `0` if the script is sent from any address other than `0x42`.

A transaction script can have an arbitrary number of `signer`s as long as the signers are a prefix
to any other arguments. In other words, all of the signer arguments must come first:
如果脚本是从 0x42 以外的任何地址发送的，则此脚本将以代码 0 中止。

只要签名者是任何其他参数的前缀，事务脚本就可以有任意数量的签名者。换句话说，所有的签名者参数都必须放在第一位：

```move=
script {
    use std::signer;
    fun main(s1: signer, s2: signer, x: u64, y: u8) {
        // ...
    }
}
```

This is useful for implementing _multi-signer scripts_ that atomically act with the authority of
multiple parties. For example, an extension of the script above could perform an atomic currency
swap between `s1` and `s2`.
这对于实现具有多方权限的原子行为的多签名者脚本很有用。例如，上述脚本的扩展可以在 s1 和 s2 之间执行原子货币交换。

## `signer` Operators

The `std::signer` standard library module provides two utility functions over `signer` values:
## 签名者运算符
std::signer 标准库模块为签名者值提供了两个实用函数：

| Function                                    | Description                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `signer::address_of(&signer): address`      | Return the `address` wrapped by this `&signer`.               |
| `signer::borrow_address(&signer): &address` | Return a reference to the `address` wrapped by this `&signer` |

In addition, the `move_to<T>(&signer, T)` [global storage operator](./global-storage-operators.md)
requires a `&signer` argument to publish a resource `T` under `signer.address`'s account. This
ensures that only an authenticated user can elect to publish a resource under their `address`.

此外，move_to T (&signer, T) 全局存储操作符需要一个 &signer 参数来在 signer.address 的帐户下发布资源 T。这确保了只有经过身份验证的用户才能选择在其地址下发布资源。

## Ownership

Unlike simple scalar values, `signer` values are not copyable, meaning they cannot be copied (from
any operation whether it be through an explicit [`copy`](./variables.md#move-and-copy) instruction
or through a [dereference `*`](./references.md#reference-operators)).
## 所有权
与简单的标量值不同，签名者值是不可复制的，这意味着它们不能被复制（通过任何操作，无论是通过显式复制指令还是通过取消引用 *）。

Commit message:

migrate Move Book of Chinese version from MoveDao (#380)
* migrate Move Book of Chinese version from MoveDao

* add move-tutorial zh_CN

- update move-tutorial step_x/source-file-links

* Update move-tutorial.md

fix some translations.

* Update move-tutorial.md

* update global storage & unit testing chapters

* update standard-library

* update coding-conventions

* Update <variables>, <equality> and <abort-and-assert> mandarin translations

* loops zh

* conditionals zh

* modules-and-scripts zh

* update references.md

* update tuples-unit.md

* Delete references.md

* Delete tuples-unit.md

* update tuples.md

* modules-and-scripts zh

* update references.md&tuples.md

* update address.md signer.md vector.md

* update signer.md

* Improve: Add chinese content in SUMMARY

* Improve: abilites  fix

* Add files via upload

movedao的翻译版本

* update by tom/moveDAO

* update by tom/moveDAO

* Tom\moveDAO

* fix some typos

* polish up

* rm superfluous file

* fix lint check

* fix and migrate uses.md

* migrate functions.md and structs-and-resources.md

* migrate constants.md

* migrate friends.md and generics.md

* migrate packages.md

* update readme

* fix ci check error

* fix ci

* address lint

* fix lint

Co-authored-by: loadi <loadi@x.com>
Co-authored-by: leego <rainmego@qq.com>
Co-authored-by: yvvw <15168529+yvvw@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: MagicGordon <zgdzgdzgdzgd@163.com>
Co-authored-by: Zixia Weng <zixiaweng@MacBook-Pro.local>
Co-authored-by: zhangshaohong <zhangshaohong@yizhicloud.cn>
Co-authored-by: container <zqing102@163.com>
Co-authored-by: Container <61052480+Container-00@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kusou1 <zhangshaohong1997@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: 李晓东 <871826082@qq.com>
Co-authored-by: lshoo <lshoo36@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: xixifusi1984 <39210551+xixifusi1984@users.noreply.github.com>

language/documentation/book/translations/move-book-zh/src/signer.md, after:

# Signer

`signer` is a built-in Move resource type. A `signer` is a [capability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-capability_model) that allows the holder to act on
behalf of a particular `address`.

You can think of the native implementation as being:

`signer` 是Move内置的资源类型。`signer` 是一种允许持有者代表特定 `address` 行使权力的能力([capability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-capability_model))
你可以将原生实现(native implementation)视为：

```move
struct signer has drop { a: address }
```
A `signer` is somewhat similar to a Unix [UID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_identifier) in
that it represents a user authenticated by code _outside_ of Move (e.g., by checking a cryptographic
signature or password).

`signer` 有点像Unix [UID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_identifier), 它表示一个在 Move 代码之外(__outside__)进行身份验证的用户(例如通过检查加密签名或密码)。

## 与 `address` 的比较

A Move program can create any `address` value without special permission using address literals:

Move程序可以使用地址字面值(literals)在没有特殊许可的情况下创建 `address` 值。

```move
let a1 = @0x1;
let a2 = @0x2;
// ... and so on for every other possible address
```
However, `signer` values are special because they cannot be created via literals or
instructions--only by the Move VM. Before the VM runs a script with parameters of type `signer`, it
will automatically create `signer` values and pass them into the script:

但是，`signer` 值是特殊的，因为它们不能通过字面值(literals)或者指令创建--只能通过Move虚拟机(VM)。
在虚拟机(VM)运行带有 `signer` 类型参数的脚本之前，它将自动创建 `signer` 值并将它们传递到脚本中：

```move=
script {
    use std::signer;
    fun main(s: signer) {
        assert!(signer::address_of(&s) == @0x42, 0);
    }
}
```

This script will abort with code `0` if the script is sent from any address other than `0x42`.

如果脚本是从 `0x42` 以外的任务地址发送的，则此脚本将中止并返回代码 `0`。

A transaction script can have an arbitrary number of `signer`s as long as the signers are a prefix
to any other arguments. In other words, all of the signer arguments must come first:

脚本可以有任意数量的 `signer`, 只要 `signer` 参数排在其他参数前面。换句话说，所有 `signer` 参数都必须放在第一位。

```move=
script {
    use std::signer;
    fun main(s1: signer, s2: signer, x: u64, y: u8) {
        // ...
    }
}
```


This is useful for implementing _multi-signer scripts_ that atomically act with the authority of
multiple parties. For example, an extension of the script above could perform an atomic currency
swap between `s1` and `s2`.

这对于实现具有多方权限原子行为的多签名脚本(_multi-signer scripts_)很有用。 例如，上述脚本的扩展可以在 `s1` 和 `s2` 之间执行原子货币交换。

## `signer` 操作

The `std::signer` standard library module provides two utility functions over `signer` values:

| Function                                    | Description                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `signer::address_of(&signer): address`      | Return the `address` wrapped by this `&signer`.               |
| `signer::borrow_address(&signer): &address` | Return a reference to the `address` wrapped by this `&signer` |

`std::signer`标准库模块为`signer`提供了两个实用函数:

| 函数                                        | 描述                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `signer::address_of(&signer): address`      | 返回此 `&signer` 包装中的地址值.               |
| `signer::borrow_address(&signer): &address` | 返回此 `&signer` 包装中地址的引用|

In addition, the `move_to<T>(&signer, T)` [global storage operator](./global-storage-operators.md)
requires a `&signer` argument to publish a resource `T` under `signer.address`'s account. This
ensures that only an authenticated user can elect to publish a resource under their `address`.

此外，`move_to<T>(&signer, T)` [全局存储](./global-storage-operators.md)操作符需要一个 `&signer` 参数在 `signer.address` 的帐户下发布资源 `T`。 这确保了只有经过身份验证的用户才能在其地址下发布资源。

## 所有权 (Ownership)

与简单的标量值不同，`signer` 值没有复制能力，这意味着他们不能被复制(通过任何操作，无论是通过显式[`copy`](./variables.md#move-and-copy)指令或者通过解引用([dereference `*`](./references.md#reference-operators))
